---
title: Accessibility, Design Systems II
excerpt:
status: announced
---

<script>

	import Homework from "$lib/components/Homework.svelte";
	import LessonPlan from "$lib/components/LessonPlan.svelte";
	import LabTime from "$lib/components/LabTime.svelte";

</script>

<Homework {status}>

</Homework>

<LessonPlan {status}>

## Accessibility

People with different ranges of physical and cognitive ability use the internet everyday. While it's easy to assume that everyone engages with the web the way that you do, this is far from the truth. As a developer, you are responsible for creating a positive web experience for people with many different ranges of ability.

### How accessibility Benefits Everyone

- Semantic HTML, which improves accessibility, also improves SEO, making your site more findable.
- Caring about accessibility demonstrates good ethics and morals, which improves your public image.
- Other good practices that improve accessibility also make your site more usable by other groups, such as mobile phone users or those on low network speed. In fact, everyone can benefit from many such improvements.
- Did we mention it is also the law in some places?

_From [MDN Article](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/What_is_accessibility)_

### Types of Accessibility issues

- Vision Impairment
  - [Listen to how visually impared people experience the web with screen readers](https://youtu.be/IK97XMibEws)
  - Use good contrast relatios
    - [WebAIM Accessibility Checker](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/)
- Hearing Impairment
  - Audio should be captioned
- Mobility Impairment
  - Have good keyboard controls (like being able to tab through content effectively)
- Cognitive Impairment
  - Use plain language standards
  - Minimize distractions
  - Consistent and easy to use design

---

## Design Systems in Figma Review

### Project Structure

_For a scalable project_

1. Create a Project in a team: this allows you to group and scale your work elegantly
2. Create a **Design System** File: This will be your component and stylesheet library
3. Create a file for **Mockups**: Static lofi and hifi wireframes and mockups go here
4. Create a file for **Prototypes**: Animated and interactive prototypes go here

#### Notes

- These steps make the maximum use of available files in a free figma team.
- It allows you to build out your designs in a lot of complexity.
- However it's not always necessary to use this many files, you can do the same thing on a smaller scale using a single figma file via **pages**
  - ie: 1 page for design system, 1 page for mockups, and 1 page for prototypes
  - _this is quicker to get started, but is harder to edit to scale well_
  - **You or your team will have to make the call on scalability yourselves**
- The steps noted above are a good foundation to get use to working. It normalizes splitting work into separate files and keeping each file from getting too cluttered

### Important Design System Elements

- Color Scheme: Tailwind or smaller brand grouping of colors (3-5 colors minimum)
- Typography: Display, Text, and sometimes brand fonts. Set their sizes and weights
- Effect Styles: set consistent border shadows

### Important Component Elements

- Cards
- Buttons
- Headers
- Footers
- Special Text Elements
- and more depending on your UI needs

## Workflow Tips

- When creating mockups and prototypes, get used to setting your design system and importing it into your mockup file and using the design styles for all content. **Avoid manually setting fonts etc**
- Also when building mockups and prototypes, use one off designs as little as possible, opt for reproducible components as much as possible.
- For prototypes, your mockups can also be made into components for re-use. This will greatly speed up your workflow

---

 </LessonPlan>

<LabTime {status}>

## Lab Achievement

- Applied Design System
  - Goal: Create a design system and set of components with which to create a card mockup using the abovenoted file structure

</LabTime>
