---
title: Final Project Planning
excerpt: 
status: published
---
<script>
	import Homework from "$lib/components/Homework.svelte";
	import LessonPlan from "$lib/components/LessonPlan.svelte";
	import LabTime from "$lib/components/LabTime.svelte";
	import Achievement from "$lib/components/Achievement.svelte";
</script>

<LessonPlan {status}>

## 1. Group Project Overview
Group discussion on what to do for final project.
- DRAFT: [Final Group Project](/courses/cpnt-200/assessments/final-project)
    - Weight: 35%
    - Due: Thursday, April 6 @ 11:59pm

---

## 2. Demo: How Tony imported his list of Magic Items
- Source Google Sheet: [Pathfinder Magic Items DB](https://www.d20pfsrd.com/magic-items/magic-items-db/)

**Process**
1. Search for a large CSV dataset that fits your group's preferences;
    - The dataset should have enough rows to require all/most group members to contribute to data cleaning;
2. Download the CSV and load into Google Sheets or Excel to clean your data;
3. Using Global search and replace:
    - "null" &rarr; empty cell;
4. Import data into Supabase:
    - Set number columns to either `Float4` or `Int8` data type
    - Set `true`/`false` or `0`/`1` columns to `Bool`
5. Use one (or another strategy to clean you data). As Supabase errors are encountered, make changes in Sheet or Excel to fix issues with, either (or more):
    - Global search and replace;
    - manual value editing;
    - remove problematic columns;
    - remove problematic rows.
6. Create additional tables as needed:
    - each one-to-many relationship will require an extra table;
    - each many-to-many relationship will require two extra tables.
7. With a clean, deployed Supabase project, begin building frontend. 

---

## 3. Lab Time
As a group, scour the Internet for an open dataset that you can use for your final project. 

Before the end of the day:
- Report back to your Instructor on your chosen dataset for approval;
- Create a Group Charter in GH Projects (see [Final Project instructions](/courses/cpnt-200/assessments/final-project#group-charter-gh-project)).

---

</LessonPlan>

<Achievement {status} dueDate={false}>

Due tonight (Friday) at 11:59pm in Brightspace.

## Achievement 7
### 10 points: Custom database from Google Sheet
Import the Google Sheet you created for Achievement 6 and import it into Supabase:

### Instructions
1. Export each Google Sheet as a CSV file;
2. In Supabase, create each table by importing its respective CSV and:
		- Prepend your table names with `ach7` to separate from any other tables in your project;
		- _Enable_ RLS;
		- set `id` as primary;
		- set an appropriate data type (use `text` instead of `varchar`);
		- allow `NULL` as needed.
3. Add appropriate foreign keys for all one-to-many relationships;
4. Add a policy to each table that allows anyone to read the table.
5. Create SvelteKit routes:
		- **List Entry page** - display a list or gallery of items from your database. Each item should be linked to its respective item route
		- **Dynamic Item Route** - display an item based on a route parameter. Use a Supabase filter such as `.eq()` to select the single item from your database.

**Requirements**
This achievement will have the same requirements as [Achievement 5](/courses/cpnt-200/day-5#achievement)

**Submission Instructions**
Submit the following as a link in brightspace:
- GH repo
- Deployed link

</Achievement>

<Homework {status}>

</Homework>